# puzzle_script
Generate 'encrypted' messages for use in tabletop RPGs.

This project exists to create simple encrypted messages, using a substitution cipher, for use in tabletop roleplaying 
games.  Players can either be given a series of messages to solve on their own or provided with the cipher key.


## Usage
**Simple use:**
1. Store your message(s) in the default locaiton file named 'message.txt' in the same directory as puzzle_script.py.
2. Execute the following command in your terminal: 'python3 puzzle_script.py'.
3. View the generated output.

**Fancy features:**
1. Load a message from custom files: '-m [filepath]'
2. Reuse the same cipher key by setting the seed value: '-s [number]'

Examples: 
```
# simple execution loading from message.txt and using a random cipher key.
python3 puzzle_script.txt

# use the same random cipher key across multiple runs by setting the seed value.

# load from message.txt using seed value 12345
python3 puzzle_script.py -s 12345

# load different message files using seed value 12345
python3 puzzle_script.py -m message1.txt -s 12345
python3 puzzle_script.py -m message2.txt -s 12345
```

## Output
The output is stored in multiple formats to make it easy to utilize.
**log.txt**
* RANDOM SEED: the value used to generate the substitution cipher.
* MESSAGE: the original input message.
* ENCODED MESSAGE: the message generated by the substitution cipher.
* CIPHER KEY: the key that can be used to translate the encoded message.

**original_message.jpg**
* The original message rendered using a custom RPG inspired font.

**encoded_message.jpg**
* The encoded message rendered using a custom RPG inspired font.

**alphabet.jpg**
* Reference that can be used to translate between the standard alphabet and custom RPG inspired font.


## Test
Unit tests are provided to prove the cipher and random seed perform as expected.
```
# run unit tests using pytest from puzzle_script project directory
pytest
```

## Required Dependencies
```
# install pip3
sudo apt install python3-pip
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

# install virtualenv
pip3 install virtualenv
virtualenv --python=python3 env_name

# create virtualenv for python3
which python3
python3 -m pip virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate

# install Pillow
python3 -m pip install --upgrade Pillow
```

## Custom Fonts
Tuigan Font 
* Designed by Pixel Sagas
* Licensed as Freeware
* https://www.fontspace.com/tuigan-font-f20523